{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww20100\viewh16500\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Manure & Legume Nutrient Credit Calculator
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
This app calculates the plant-available nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\sub 2
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub O
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\sub 5
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub ), potassium (K
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\sub 2
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub O), and sulfur (S) nutrient credits (i.e. fertilizer value) of manure from various livestock species that is applied to cropland fields. The app also calculates the N credit available to crops that follow forage legumes in the rotation. \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Manure Nutrient Credits\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-7024

\b0 \cf0 To use this portion of the app, first select either 
\i \ul Analyzed Nutrient Content
\i0 \ulnone  or 
\i \ul Average Nutrient Content
\i0 \ulnone  from the Menu.     \
\
If the manure has been analyzed by a laboratory for its nutrient content, identify the manure source (livestock species and form). Next, select one of the three categories for the time from application to incorporation of the manure. Then enter the reported lab values for either total or available N, P\sub 2\nosupersub O\sub 5\nosupersub , K\sub 2\nosupersub 0, and S from the lab report. If the total nutrient content is entered, the app will covert this value to available nutrient content automatically. Likewise, if the available nutrient content of the manure is entered, the equivalent total nutrient content of the manure sample will be displayed. If manure nutrient content values need to be changed at any time, tap the 
\b Reset
\b0  button in the center of the screen to clear the nutrient content displays. The last step is to choose the manure application rate by tapping the 
\b [- +]
\b0  buttons to raise or lower the values. Your calculated nutrient credits from this manure application are displayed at the bottom of the screen. These credits should be subtracted from the base (unadjusted) fertilizer recommendations for the field receiving this manure.  \
\
If the manure has not been analyzed for nutrient content, typical nutrient contents (also called book values) based on lab analysis averages will be used. First, identify the appropriate manure source. Then select a category for the time from application to incorporation of the manure. Next, choose the manure application rate by tapping the 
\b [- +]
\b0  buttons to raise or lower the values. Your calculated nutrient credits from this manure application are displayed at the bottom of the screen. These credits should be subtracted from the base (unadjusted) fertilizer recommendations for the field receiving this manure.  \
 \
Manure nutrient content can vary greatly, manure analysis is encouraged.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Legume Nitrogen Credits
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
To calculate forage legume-N credits, first select the forage legume crop. Legume choices are alfalfa or red clover/birdsfoot trefoil. Next, enter the soil texture of the field. The density of the legume stand at the time of termination also needs to be entered. A \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul good\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  stand of alfalfa is 70% or more alfalfa (> 4 plants/ft
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 2
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub ); a \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul fair\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  stand is 30-70% alfalfa (1.5-4 plants/ft
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 2
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub ); a \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul poor\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  stand is less than 30% alfalfa (< 1.5 plants/ft
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super 2
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub ). Lastly, select the amount of plant regrowth (> 8 inches \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul or\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  < 8 inches) present at the time the legume crop is killed. The legume-N nutrient credit available to the crop that follows in the rotation is displayed at the bottom of the screen. This amount should be subtracted from the base (unadjusted) N fertilizer recommendation.\
\'95 Method of killing the forage stand (tillage, herbicide, winter kill) does not affect the N credit.\
\'95 A second year N credit of 50 lb N/acre is released following a good or fair legume stand on medium- and fine-textured soils. There is no second year credit on sands.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Version 1.0\
This app was developed by the UW-Madison Nutrient and Pest Management (NPM) program. We would like to acknowledge the following individuals who helped on this project.\
Carrie Laboski, Professor, Department of Soil Science, University of Wisconsin - Madison\
Roger Schmidt, NPM Computer Specialist\
John Schmidt, NPM Computer Programmer\
Mo Lu, \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPM Computer Programmer\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Scott Sturgul, NPM Nutrient Management Specialist\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
http://ipcm.wisc.edu\
Copyright \'a9 2015 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For more information on manure and legume nutrient credits, see UW-Extension publication A2809 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nutrient Application Guidelines for Field, Vegetable and Fruit Crops in Wisconsin.\
(app icon)
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
}